---
view-count: 1
---
# In the Original Universe

**Ozma** (also referred to as _Princess Ozma_ or _Queen Ozma_) is a fictional character invented by L. Frank Baum, author and creator of the Oz legacy. She makes her debut appearance in Baum's second Oz book titled _[The Marvelous Land of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/The_Marvelous_Land_of_Oz "The Marvelous Land of Oz")_, published in 1904. However, she is first introduced as an adolescent orphan boy of [Gillikin](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Gillikin "Gillikin") descent called Tippetarius but nicknamed "[Tip](Tippetarius.md)", who serves as the main protagonist in the story and whose true identity is not revealed until the end of the novel.

Ozma lives in the magical [Land of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Land_of_Oz "Land of Oz"), and is a born and raised Ozian, who is the last living descendent of Royal Blood, therefore Ozma is the highest figure of authority in the entire country. In each of Oz's four divided quadrants of the [North](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Gillikin_Country "Gillikin Country"), [South](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Quadling_Country "Quadling Country"), [East](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Munchkin_Country "Munchkin Country") and [West](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Winkie_Country "Winkie Country"), many witches and sorcerers have claimed certain territories and taken residence there, ruling over the native clans; yet by law, Ozma is still considered the head-leading ruler of Oz as a whole.
### **Queen [Lurline](Lurline.md)**

Ozma is the long-lost daughter of the long-deceased King named [Pastoria](Pastoria.md), who once ruled Oz in a small Kingdom, long before the great humbug [Wizard](Oscar%20Diggs.md) arrived.

In the forty Oz books, it is revealed Ozma's mother was an ethereal enchantress and beautiful Fairy Queen named [Lurline](Lurline.md), who was of a mysterious higher power. Lurline is also responsible for creating the realm of Oz by separating it from the rest of our world with her fairy magic many, many centuries ago.

Ozma is a human descendent from Royal-blood as Lurline chose her mortal mate who is hinted to be Pastoria. When Pastoria became King of the land and to take Oz's Imperial Throne Lurline departed from him and left the land of Oz forever with her band of "fairy-children" to carry on with her duties and find more unclaimed lands to enchant. Even though Lurline is much like Ozma's birth mother, Ozma refers to Lurline as her "Fairy Godmother." However, [Glinda](Glinda.md), the Good Witch of the South who rules the southern quadrant in Oz called [Quadling Country](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Quadling_Country "Quadling Country"), looks after Ozma like a motherly figure to fill in for the permanent absence of Lurline.

Ozma's and Lurline's ancestors come from a very long line of a fairy-race, though Baum never elaborates too much upon them. This makes Ozma half mortal and half fairy, even though she does not bare magic wings attached to her body to fly, she naturally can perform simple magic as it runs in her blood. Ozma is one of the very few individuals and Ozians in Oz authorized to legally practice the magical arts whenever she wishes to do so. Especially when an emergency, good or bad has taken place.
- It is also known in Oz that the characters of Ozga, Ozana, and the [Mist Maidens](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Mist_Maidens "Mist Maidens") are related to Ozma.

### Princess Ozma & Immortality in Oz

When Princess Ozma took her rightful place back as the official heir to the Royal Throne to rule, thus fulfilling Oz's prophecy, with the help of Glinda, she stopped the aging process in Oz forever. In addition, this spell also eliminated any unpleasant diseases or fatal deaths in general and none of the beings of Oz ever become deathly ill or die unless they are cruel and evil, such as the Wicked Witches who once dwelled in various quadrants of Oz. This spell is also so powerful, no Ozian is forced to age a single day in appearance if they do not wish to. In a few of Baum's last Oz books, it is said that Ozma eventually cut Oz entirely off from all the other outer worlds, making the land invisible to outsiders and sealing any portals or dimension openings. This was done to keep Oz from being discovered or possibly invaded by unwanted intruders. But before securing Oz's realm, Ozma invited some mortals from our world to relocate and live there permanently.

The most notable characters are Ozma's best friend [Princess Dorothy Gale](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Dorothy_Gale_(Novels) "Dorothy Gale (Novels)") of [Kansas](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Kansas "Kansas"), her pet dog [Toto](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Toto_(Novels) "Toto (Novels)"), the [Wizard](Oscar%20Diggs.md) of Oz himself, Dorothy's [Aunt Em](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Aunt_Em_(Novels) "Aunt Em (Novels)"), her [Uncle Henry](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Uncle_Henry_(Novels) "Uncle Henry (Novels)"), [Billina](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Billina_(Novels) "Billina (Novels)") the talking hen, [Eureka](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Eureka "Eureka") the pink and purple kitten, the homeless [Shaggy Man](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Shaggy_Man "Shaggy Man"), [Betsy Bobbin](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Betsy_Bobbin "Betsy Bobbin"), and her pet [Hank](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Hank "Hank") the talking mule, [Trot](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Trot "Trot"), little [Button Bright](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Button_Bright "Button Bright"), and [Cap'n Bill](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Cap%27n_Bill "Cap'n Bill"). These people mostly all reside in Oz's imperial capital aka the [Emerald City](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Emerald_City "Emerald City"). They live in the city's [Royal Palace of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Royal_Palace_of_Oz "Royal Palace of Oz") with Ozma, where they can stay forever and are surrounded by luxury and comfort. Ozma is said to own a [Magic Picture](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Magic_Picture "Magic Picture") in her chambers, which can magically show her different scenes taking place of what is happening from anywhere in the entire world. Ozma uses this picture to bring people (mostly children) who have endured painful and unfortunate lives, to live in Oz, and where they're given a second chance at a "happily ever after."

Ozma loves rescuing and taking care of the less fortunate or those who have no one to look after them.

However, this amazing anti-aging spell of Ozma's is only affective and useful when in Oz. If any Ozian ventures beyond the [Deadly Desert](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Deadly_Desert "Deadly Desert") or back into our world, they would start to age rapidly, within a matter of seconds until they looked their true age. Luckily, this most likely will not happen because no one who lives in Oz ever wishes to leave because it is such a wonderful and glorious place where marvelous and magical things are natural and indeed possible.

### Appearance of Princess Ozma...

"_[Glinda](Glinda.md) walked to the canopy and parted the silken hangings. Then she bent over the cushions, reached out her hand, and from the couch arose the form of a young girl that gave the order of a mature woman. She was very fresh, healthy and extremely beautiful as the dew from a Spring May morning. Her lovely eyes sparkled like two large emeralds, and her glossy pink lips were tinted like a tourmaline. All down her back floated tresses of ruddy gold locks, with a slender solid gold circlet that was entrusted with jewels confining them at the brow. Two lovely blossoms were adorned on each side of her head and her elegant robes of silken green gauze floated around her like a cloud, and dainty satin slippers shod her little feet._"
―{{{2}}}[The Marvelous Land of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/The_Marvelous_Land_of_Oz "The Marvelous Land of Oz") (1904)

- It is stated several times by Baum in his Oz books that other than the characters of Glinda the Good, Polychrome the rainbow fairy and Lurline the sky goddess, nothing and no one in Oz or in the normal world is as beautiful, mesmerizing, sweet, glorious and marvelous and true as Queen Ozma, not even Princess Dorothy Gale. So she along with her mother Lurline, Glinda and Polychrome are without any doubt and without a question the fairest and prettiest things in all the fairylands, the lands of Oz and in the normal world and the magical universe as well. And all four of them are the loveliest and most gorgeous characters in the whole books series.

As a half-fairy, Ozma is immortal, and would never age even if she were to live outside of Oz. Baum described Ozma as having the appearance of a young human girl no older than sixteen, and to be as fresh and clear as the purest dew drop on a Spring May morning. The greatest and utmost vision of loveliness, glamour, grace and elegance and pure beauty in the land of oz. She had large, lovely bright green eyes that sparkle like emeralds and speak truth and health under her long eyelashes. Her lips are soft and tinted like the finest pink tourmaline, and her long, thick curly and richest hair is a dark ruddy blonde with hints of gold, amber and ember that shines so beautifully and so stunningly when it catches the sunlight. and her whole entire features and figure was fabulously divine and wonderfully majestic. Above all she is without a doubt the prettiest, loveliest, fairest and most gorgeously beautiful, breathtaking, radiant, sublime and divine in all the lands of Oz.

Ozma never wears anything that would be described as casual. In the Oz books, she is illustrated wearing elegant frocks and extravagant robes of fine rich fabrics of many layers, which gracefully flow around her. Her authentic and luminous clothing is of weightless sheer gauze or silk. These dresses are always of pure white or shades of green in colour. The majority of all her wardrobe is decorated with soft feathers, pearls, glass beads and expensive jewels that are all sewn into the hems of the dresses to weigh the lightness of Ozma's attire down. Ozma's feet are dressed in silk pantyhose, and she wears satin slippers with bejeweled buckles.

To complete her unique look, Ozma always wears either a solid gold crown that rises a foot above her head or a head accessory of two solid gold bands encrusted with emeralds that reads "_**OZ**_ ", right at the middle of her forehead, being the focal point of her trademark headpiece. Either side of her head is also adorned with giant perfumed blossoms.

Ozma carries a magic golden scepter with her that also reads "_**OZ**_ " and is encrusted with thousands of sparkling stones and gems of real diamonds, rubies, sapphires, rainbow tinted tourmaline, glowing limestones, polished turquoise, and chips of topaz. Above all Queen Ozma had the best resemblance and divine figure and unrivaled beauty like that of mother earth, the goddess of nature, spring and the earth. and her glorious and most angelic form was shapely and stately as any other goddesses of earth, spring or nature or the forests itself. And simply the fairest, grandest and most angelic, drop dead gorgeous, extraordinary, alluring, marvelous and wonderful and exquisite of all those earthly fairies, gods and goddesses.

## Personality & Mannerisms

In [Ruth Plumly Thompson](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Ruth_Plumly_Thompson "Ruth Plumly Thompson")'s book _[Kabumpo in Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Kabumpo_in_Oz "Kabumpo in Oz")_, Ozma declares that she has no interest in romance.

In the Oz books it is implied several times that Ozma can do no wrong. Like many of Baum's characters; Ozma is pure of heart. Not only does Ozma look like a real Princess and a real queen, but she acts like one as well. Anyone who meets her knows by just looking at her that she is unquestionably of Royal blood. Her movements are dignified, smooth, elegant and graceful, her manners imply proper etiquette. She is also portrayed as an extremely compassionate, excelled, resourceful and benevolent and perfect little ruler, who never loses her temper or resorts to acts of violence.

She does not believe in destroying even her worst enemies no matter how wicked or atrocious they may be. Despite her young age Ozma is intelligent, eloquent and collected beyond her years and a very powerful ruler who rules all the land of Oz fairly and very wisely, always consulting reliable figures such as [Glinda the Good](Glinda.md), when in trouble, doubt or in need of simple assistance. Ozma goes out of her way to make sure all of her subjects are happy, healthy, content and safe from harms way. (Her personality changes somewhat in [Ruth Plumly Thompson](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Ruth_Plumly_Thompson "Ruth Plumly Thompson")'s Oz books, however; where she occasionally does resort to acts of violence against her foes, such as having Mombi executed).

Despite being a child who is young at heart and full of excitement, Princess Ozma can be extremely mature, resilient and serious when it's time to work instead of play. And incredibly divine and beautiful on the inside and outside.

"_Ozma made the loveliest Queen the Emerald City had ever known; and, although she was so young and inexperienced, she ruled her people with wisdom and Justice. For Glinda gave her very good advice on all occasions; and the Woggle-Bug, who was appointed to the important post of Public Educator, was quite helpful to Ozma when her royal duties grew perplexing._"
―{{{2}}}[The Marvelous Land of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/The_Marvelous_Land_of_Oz "The Marvelous Land of Oz") (1904)

Ozma lives in the [Royal Palace of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Royal_Palace_of_Oz "Royal Palace of Oz") in the center of the Emerald City. And is protected by her royal bodyguard, the [Soldier with the Green Whiskers](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Omby_Amby_(Novels) "Omby Amby (Novels)"). She is a incredibly busy and proactive little ruler, who looks very carefully after the comfort and welfare of her loyal subjects. She tries to make them all happy and peaceful, if any quarrels arise, she decides them justly. She is always ready and willing to listen to anyone who is unhappy, which is not common in Oz, but anyone who needs counsel or advice, Ozma is always there. _([The Emerald City of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/The_Emerald_City_of_Oz "The Emerald City of Oz"))_ She spends an hour each day listening to the troubles of her people, surrounded by all the important personages of Oz. _("[The Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/The_Cowardly_Lion_and_the_Hungry_Tiger "The Cowardly Lion and the Hungry Tiger")")_ She always eats breakfasts alone and spends the morning over state matters, which leaves her afternoons free to play with her chums or take a refreshing walk in her royal rose garden arm in arm with her best friend who looks up to her, [Dorothy Gale](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Dorothy_Gale_(Novels) "Dorothy Gale (Novels)"). _([The Royal Book of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/The_Royal_Book_of_Oz "The Royal Book of Oz"))_ When she sits on her throne and makes laws and settles disputes, she is as dignified and demure as any queen, but in her private apartments and with old and trusted friends she is a joyous and lighthearted girl who enjoys having as much fun and play as possible. _([The Patchwork Girl of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/The_Patchwork_Girl_of_Oz "The Patchwork Girl of Oz"))_

## History of Oz: Fairy Queens & Mortal Kings

Long, long ago, before the [Wizard](Oscar%20Diggs.md) crossed over the [Deadly Desert](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Deadly_Desert "Deadly Desert"), arriving via hot-air balloon, Oz was just like any other place on earth. It was ruled by a very old yet kind and gentle King of human mortal blood named [Pastoria](Pastoria.md). Now it is rumored that Pastoria was also once madly in love with a beautiful enchantress named [Lurline](Lurline.md), the Fairy Queen who processed great magical powers only for good and is credited for making Oz a fairy country by enchanting it and cutting it off from the rest of the world centuries ago. When she first chose the land where she wanted to make Oz. Lurline used her magic to create it's breathtaking landscapes, making sparkling rivers and rocky mountains with high waterfalls, pine filled forests and thick jungles, rainforests, vast hills and colorful flowery meadows. And after it was finished, Lurline cut the land off from the rest of the world and named it Oz. She and Pastoria, along with the people of the fairy Kingdom lived amongst all of these lovely sights for a long time in harmony and bliss.

Lurline and Pastoria eventually came together as one and had a beautiful baby girl whom Lurline named 'Ozma', the first fairy child of Oz. The daughter of the two was half human and half fairy, making her immortal like Lurline even though Pastoria was not. After that Lurline left the land of Oz to continue enchanting other lands and created other realms similar to Oz. She put Pastoria on the Throne and left Ozma in his care before parting ways and disappearing forever with her band of fairy-children to began new duties. Lurline can be viewed as a mother-nature like figure as she has many invisible fairy children, who are the guardian angels to the lands Lurline has enchanted. They watch over all the living things, such as the trees, rivers, and soil. They keep the lands, such as Oz beautiful and fresh, bringing in the light cool breezes of spring and shade to hot sunny places, and carry the rich pollen which can be found within the spring flowers and little buttercups. They tend to the dying plants in the lands and nurse them back to health and create the moist morning due to feed the green grass that grows.

The King Pastoria lived a long and wise life and he became very, very old with wrinkled skin and a long white beard. Now, widowed and left on his own with a baby infant and without the guidance of Lurline, Pastoria was not a very powerful King and was only getting older. He lived in a rather small Kingdom, in the middle of the land. His people were happy and content as his subjects, but the land of Oz was still inhabited by two Wicked Witches of the East and West quadrants and who also had many people from Oz enslaved. The [Wicked Witch of the West](Elphaba%20Thropp%20(Wicked%20Wiki).md) had a [Golden Cap](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Golden_Cap "Golden Cap") and the charm of this cap allowed her to command her [Winged Monkeys](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Winged_Monkeys "Winged Monkeys"), who were Slaves to the cap, make the [Winkies](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Winkies "Winkies") her Slaves also. And the [Wicked Witch of the East](Nessarose%20Thropp%20(Wicked%20Wiki).md) used the magic of her [Silver Shoes](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Silver_Shoes "Silver Shoes") to keep the [Munchkin](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Munchkin "Munchkin") people tightly in her bondage.

The Witches were very powerful indeed and could do as ever they pleased to anyone or thing that was unlucky to cross the Witches paths. These Witches cast many spells upon innocent people, turning them into random house or kitchen objects such as flowerpots or candle sticks. The Wicked Witches tried many, many times to overthrow Pastoria and take over all of Oz as a whole. Unfortunately, Pastoria himself did not know anything about practicing the magic arts, for he depended on Queen Lurline's magic. So he could not defend himself or his people. The Witches in Oz could have easily taken over and stole the King's Throne and enslaved his subjects to their own pleasing. The only thing that stopped them from truly doing so, was the other two Good Witches Locasta Tattypoo aka the [Good Witch of the North](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Good_Witch_of_the_North_(Novels) "Good Witch of the North (Novels)") who ruled over the northern quadrant called [Gillikin Country](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Gillikin_Country "Gillikin Country"), and [Glinda the Good Witch of the South](Glinda.md), who ruled the southern quadrant known as the [Quadling Country](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Quadling_Country "Quadling Country").

The two Good Witches used all the power and sorcery they knew to protect poor Pastoria and his people from harm's way. But they were not strong enough to banish the Wicked Witches out of Oz or put an end to them and the Wickedness that dwelled within the land of Oz all together.

Then the [Wizard](Oscar%20Diggs.md) finally came, out of the clear blue sky. He was aloft in a large aircraft of sorts which came slowly descending down from the clouds up above. When it finally came to the ground, Pastoria's subjects and even the Witches of Oz themselves were astonished by his unexpected arrival. The Ozians had never seen such a peculiar invention. Inside the basket that was attached to the giant balloon was a man, he called himself "Oscar Diggs", and enthusiastically introduced himself as a great Wizard and gifted Magician. And the people of oz believed him as they saw him preform magic tricks right before they're very eyes. The people of Oz asked if the Wizard would be the ruler of the land and he agreed that he would look after Oz and someday rid the land of its Wicked Witches if they promised to obey his every wish and demand. The people of Oz were gullible people and believed him and his promises. Thus, building the famous [Emerald City](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Emerald_City "Emerald City") in his honor and constructing the [Yellow Brick Road](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Yellow_Brick_Road "Yellow Brick Road") that lead to the main entrance.

Shortly after the Wizard overthrew King Pastoria, he simply disappeared from Oz for a long, long time. The only thing he left behind was his baby daughter, the fairy child, Princess Ozma who one day would get old enough to use the magic she had, that ran in her blood, to claim her place as the rightful Heir to her father's Throne. This worried the greedy Wizard as he wanted the Throne all to himself. So one late night, the Wizard snuck into the Palace of Pastoria, and snatched the baby Princess up and disappeared into the dark night. He gave the baby Ozma to a Witch near by named [Mombi](Mombi.md) who lived in the North lands of Oz. Mombi was not as gifted or as powerful as the Wicked Witches in Oz, but she was still very ugly inside and very Wicked nonetheless. Mombi agreed to the Wizard's offer and favor to keep the baby hidden away from the Palace and to never let anyone know where Ozma was.

Mombi transformed Ozma to disguise her as a ragga-muffin boy named Tip to work as her personal servant and kitchen slave for many years. Much like the story of _Cinderella_.

## From Kitchen Boy Tip to Lovely Princess Ozma: A Cinderella Story...

Mombi transformed the infant Ozma into a boy and called him **Tip** (short for Tippetarius). Ozma, in the form of Tip, was raised as a boy and had no memory of ever having been a girl. As Tip, Ozma created [Jack Pumpkinhead](Jack%20Pumpkinhead.md). Glinda the good witch forced Mombi to transform the boy Tip back into Ozma, who was then installed as Oz's ruler (although many realms within Oz were and remain unaware of her authority). _([The Marvelous Land of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/The_Marvelous_Land_of_Oz "The Marvelous Land of Oz"))_

When word came to Ozma that the Royal Family of the neighboring [Land of Ev](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Land_of_Ev "Land of Ev") had been imprisoned by the [Nome King](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Nome_King_(Novels) "Nome King (Novels)"), she organized a rescue party and set out to liberate them, crossing the desert on a [Magic Carpet](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Magic_Carpet "Magic Carpet"). In [Evna](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Evna "Evna"), Dorothy Gale joined their party and they continued on to the [Nome Kingdom](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Nome_Kingdom "Nome Kingdom"). The Nome King offered them an opportunity to save the royal family of Ev, who had been turned into ornaments in his palace, but it was a trick and soon Ozma herself was transformed into a carved emerald grasshopper. She was rescued (along with everyone else) by [Billina the hen](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Billina_(Novels) "Billina (Novels)") and the entire party escaped back to Ev, having confiscated the Nome King's [Magic Belt](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Magic_Belt "Magic Belt"). The Ozites attended the coronation of King [Evardo](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Evardo "Evardo") XV and then returned to the Land of Oz. _(Ozma of Oz)_

When the Nome King planned to invade Oz and destroy it in revenge, Ozma discovered his plans with her Magic Picture. She was surprisingly nonchalant about the threat, refusing to either prepare for war or escape the country, but merely waiting for their inevitable enslavement. When the Scarecrow suggested a non-violent way to turn back the invaders, Ozma agreed and was able to protect her kingdom. _([The Emerald City of Oz](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/The_Emerald_City_of_Oz "The Emerald City of Oz"))_

She and Dorothy went to the [Flatheads](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Flatheads "Flatheads") and the [Skeezers](https://oz.fandom.com/wiki/Skeezers "Skeezers") to try to stop a war from breaking out between them. _([Glinda of Oz](Glinda.md))_

# In the Wicked Universe

**Princess Ozma Tippetarius** (currently going by **Tippa**) is a royal princess and current ruler of the land of [Oz](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Oz "Oz"), though in absentia and currently under the regency of [Brrr (Wicked Wiki)](Brrr%20(Wicked%20Wiki).md).

In _The Wicked Years_ by [Gregory Maguire](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Gregory_Maguire "Gregory Maguire"), Ozma was also once known simply as "**Tip**", due to being enchanted into a boy by the witch [Mombey](Mombi.md) in order to prevent Oz's long-lost heir to the imperial throne from being discovered.

### _Wicked_

In Maguire's version of the Oz universe, the lore surrounding the Ozma monarchy is discussed sporadically. A series of Ozmas previously ruled [Oz](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Oz "Oz") for centuries and each defined with a title before the [Wizard](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Wizard "Wizard") invaded the land and overthrew the monarchy in a coup d'état and ruled Oz under a strict regime.

The Wizard placed infant Ozma in the care of [La Mombey](Mombi.md), an old witch who transformed the princess into a boy named Tip, as well as slowed her aging.

Legends over Ozma Tippetarius' whereabouts included being hidden and frozen in ice in a cave, but obviously in later books, its revealed that she was magically turned into a male. [Elphaba Thropp](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Elphaba_Thropp "Elphaba Thropp") makes several remarks about Ozma in not believing in a "child savior".

### _Son of a Witch_

Ozma Tippetarius in the form of Tip first encounters [Liir Thropp (Wicked Wiki)](Liir%20Thropp%20(Wicked%20Wiki).md) while traveling with an unnamed woman ([La Mombey](Mombi.md)) who jokingly offers him in exchange for Elphaba's broom, but Liir declines.

### _Out of Oz_

Tip appears living in the boy’s dormitory as a runaway at St. Prowd’s Academy in the city of [Shiz](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Shiz "Shiz") and is befriended by [Rain](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Rain "Rain") while she is staying at the Academy. Tip and Rain fall in love during this time. His time staying at St. Prowd's comes to an end when word comes in that the Munchkinlanders may attack Shiz and that they may have gotten their hands on the [Grimmerie](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Grimmerie "Grimmerie"). Tip and Rain attempt to warn the school's proctress, [Ironish Clapp](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Miss_Ironish_Clapp "Miss Ironish Clapp"), but Rain is locked in her room when she criticises Ironish for not taking the threat seriously. Tip, however, anticipates this and frees her, and the two of them leave the school.

The two later flee Shiz and head for [Kiamo Ko](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Kiamo_Ko "Kiamo Ko") in [the Vinkus](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/The_Vinkus "The Vinkus"), where they find out that [Liir Thropp (Wicked Wiki)](Liir%20Thropp%20(Wicked%20Wiki).md) has been abducted by thugs in [Mombey](Mombi.md)'s employ. One night, without notice, Tip returns to Mombey hoping to secure Liir's release.

Near the novel's conclusion, Tip and Rain are reunited in the [Emerald City](https://wicked.fandom.com/wiki/Emerald_City "Emerald City") after Mombey attacks the city with dragons, securing her victory. The two had just finished making love when Mombey performs a spell called "To Call the Lost Forward", in order to return Liir to his proper form; the spell inadvertently also restores Rain’s natural green skin and returns Tip to his true form (Ozma), revealing that Mombey has kept Ozma in the form of the boy Tip for almost a century. After this, Mombey is imprisoned the Emperor [Shell Heart](Shell%20Heart.md) willingly abdicates the throne and hands the power to [Brrr (Wicked Wiki)](Brrr%20(Wicked%20Wiki).md) as Throne Minister until the newly appointed princess Ozma comes of age to rule.